Supp Matrix and GDRCopy (#44)
NVIDIA/cloud-native-docs: gpu-operator/release-notes.rst

  This feature is supported on Ubuntu 22.04 and RHCOS operating systems and on X86_64 and ARM64 architectures.

  Refer to :ref:`Chart Customization Options` for more information about the ``driver.gdrcopy`` field.

* Added support for the NVIDIA Data Center GPU Driver version 550.54.15.
  Refer to the :ref:`GPU Operator Component Matrix`
  on the platform support page.

* Added support for the following software component versions:

    - NVIDIA Container Toolkit version v1.15.0
    - NVIDIA MIG Manager version v0.7.0
    - NVIDIA Driver Manager for K8s v0.6.8
    - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.15.0
    - DCGM 3.3.5-1
    - DCGM Exporter 3.3.5-3.4.1
    - Node Feature Discovery v0.15.4
    - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.15.0
    - NVIDIA KubeVirt GPU Device Plugin v1.2.7
    - NVIDIA vGPU Device Manager v0.2.6
    - NVIDIA Kata Manager for Kubernetes v0.2.0

* Added support for Kubernetes v1.29 and v1.30.
  Refer to :ref:`Supported Operating Systems and Kubernetes Platforms`.

* Removed support for Kubernetes pod security policy (PSP).
  PSP was deprecated in the Kubernetes v1.21 release and removed in v1.25.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Added support for NVIDIA Network Operator v24.1.1

* Added support for the NVIDIA Orin IGX platform when configured in discrete GPU mode

```

I am not completely satisfied with how I worded the second bullet. Maybe replace "... when configured in discrete GPU mode" with "... when configured to use the discrete GPU"? @mikemckiernan I'll let you have the final say here.

Reviewer: Along with the second bullet, we need to update this table in the platform support page: https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/platform-support.html#supported-arm-based-platforms

We need to add a row with the following contents:
`NVIDIA Orin IGX | Ampere`

We also should edit the note box to make it clear that NVIDIA Orin IGX, a platform with an integrated GPU, is supported as long as the discrete GPU is the device being used.

   GPU Operator beta releases are documented on `GitHub <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/releases>`_. NVIDIA AI Enterprise builds are not posted on GitHub.

----

.. _v24.3.0:

24.3.0
======

.. _v24.3.0-new-features:

New Features
------------

* Added support to enable NVIDIA GDRCopy v2.4.1.

>   When you enable support for GDRCopy, the Operator configures the GPUCopy Driver container image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When you enable support for GDRCopy, the Operator configures the GDRCopy Driver container image
```

Author: Yikes! Thank you!

  as a sidecar container in the GPU driver pod.
  The sidecar container compiles and installs the gdrdrv Linux kernel module.
  This feature is supported on Ubuntu 22.04 and RHCOS operating systems and on X86_64 and ARM64 architectures.

  Refer to :ref:`Chart Customization Options` for more information about the ``driver.gdrcopy`` field.

* Added support for the NVIDIA Data Center GPU Driver version 550.54.15.
  Refer to the :ref:`GPU Operator Component Matrix`
  on the platform support page.

* Added support for the following software component versions:

    - NVIDIA Container Toolkit version v1.15.0
    - NVIDIA MIG Manager version v0.6.0
    - NVIDIA Driver Manager for K8s v0.6.8
    - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.15.0

>     - DCGM 3.3.3-1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - DCGM 3.3.5-1
```

>     - DCGM Exporter 3.3.5-3.4.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - DCGM Exporter 3.3.5-3.4.1
```

    - Node Feature Discovery v0.15.4
    - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.15.0
    - NVIDIA MIG Manager for Kubernetes v0.6.0
    - NVIDIA KubeVirt GPU Device Plugin v1.2.6
    - NVIDIA vGPU Device Manager v0.2.5

* Added support for Kubernetes v1.29 and v1.30.
  Refer to :ref:`Supported Operating Systems and Kubernetes Platforms`.

> * Added support for NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip as a generally available feature.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we support this yet. We need to update mig manager to support this device and update gpu-operator to indicate that GH200 is mig-capable

Reviewer 2: @mikemckiernan unresolving this as we need to remove this from the release notes

GH200 has not been verified on gpu-operator

Reviewer 2: Sorry nvm. I see that this has been fixed

Reviewer: I checked with Francis on this one -- we do indeed want to call out support for the GH200 super chip, as R550 adds official support with it, and our QA covered it. Apologies for any confusion here.

@mikemckiernan let's add this bullet back. Will need to revert this revert :) https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-docs/pull/44/commits/c0fff0e61be38146eed1d58b5739d75baf2a8ad8

  Refer to :ref:`supported nvidia gpus and systems`.

  The following prerequisites are required for using the Operator with GH200:

  - Run Ubuntu 22.04, the 550.54.15 GPU driver, and an NVIDIA Linux kernel, such as one provided with a ``linux-nvidia-<x.x>`` package.
  - Add ``init_on_alloc=0`` and ``memhp_default_state=online_movable`` as Linux kernel boot parameters.
  - Run the NVIDIA Open GPU Kernel module driver.

* Removed support for Kubernetes pod security policy (PSP).
  PSP was deprecated in the Kubernetes v1.21 release and removed in v1.25.

.. _v24.3.0-fixed-issues:

Fixed Issues
------------

* Installation on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15 no longer requires a workaround related to
  secrets and storage for the integrated image registry.

> * Previously, the vGPU Device Manager encountered an error if no NVIDIA devices were found in ``/sys/class/mdev_bus``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the vGPU Device Manager would panic if no NVIDIA devices were found in ``/sys/class/mdev_bus``.
```

Author: I wasn't sure if that was too technical, but I suppose admins have read that in logs before.  Made the change, TY.

* Previously, the MOFED validation init container would run for the GPU driver pod.
  In this release, the init container no longer runs because the MOFED installation check is performed by the Kubernetes Driver Manager init container.
* Previously, for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, the GPU driver installation would fail when the Linux kernel version did not match the ``/etc/os-release`` file.
  In this release, the Kernel version is determined from the running kernel to prevent the issue.
  Refer to Github `issue #617 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/issues/617>`__ for more details.
* Previously, if the metrics for DCGM Exporter were configured in a config map and the cluster policy
  specified the name of the config map as ``<namespace>:<config-map>`` in the ``DCGM_EXPORTER_CONFIGMAP_DATA`` environment variable, the exporter
  pods could not read the configuration from the config map.
  In this release, the role used by the exporter is granted access to read from config maps.
* Previously, the GPU Driver container on a Ubuntu 22.04 node supported the 5.15 LTS Linux kernel only.

>   In this release, Ubuntu 22.04 is supported with 5.15, 5.19, 6.2, and 6.5.

Reviewer: Actually, we should not call out support for the 6.x kernels with GPU Operator 24.3.0 since the driver container fix for the gcc issues has not made it into an official driver container release.

Apologies for the confusion here, we should not have kept the JIRA associated with this in the 24.3.0 initiative. Let's rollback the docs changes you made in e02077c1c776e081b8ae7bf086cdcad843948d88

* Previously, configuring the GPU Driver container for GPUDirect RDMA on an NVIDIA Grace Hopper system failed.

>   In this release, the driver container detects the architecture correctly and configuration succeeds.

Reviewer: Similar to the 6.x kernel fix, this fix has not made it into an official driver container release, so let's remove this from the release notes. We will call this out in our next release. @tariq1890 please correct me if I am wrong here.

Reviewer 2: Correct. Thanks for pointing that out @cdesiniotis

* Previously, under load, the Operator could fail with the message ``fatal error: concurrent map read and map write``.
  In this release, the Operator controller is refactored to prevent the race condition.
  Refer to Github `issue #689 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/issues/689>`__ for more details.
* Previously, if any node in the cluster was in the ``NotReady`` state, the GPU driver upgrade controller failed to make progress.
  In this release, the upgrade library is updated and skips unhealthy nodes.
  Refer to Github `issue #688 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/issues/688>`__ for more details.
* Previously, specifying an alternative network port for DGCM was ignored.
  In this release, you can specify ``spec.dcgm.hostPort: <port>`` and ``spec.dcgmExporter.env.DCGM_REMOTE_HOSTENGINE_INFO``

>   with a value like ``localhost:<port>``.

Reviewer: @tariq1890 given your comment here https://nvbugspro.nvidia.com/bug/4620893?commentNumber=1, do you think we should remove this bullet from the release notes?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should. Thanks for catching that

   GPU Operator beta releases are documented on `GitHub <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/releases>`_. NVIDIA AI Enterprise builds are not posted on GitHub.

----

.. _v24.3.0:

24.3.0
======

.. _v24.3.0-new-features:

New Features
------------

> 

Reviewer: We are missing one bullet here -- added support for Kubernetes version 1.30 (since our QA tested 1.30 in their final round of testing). We will also need to update the platform support page in various tables.

Author: I updated to 1.30 is all places except the [KubeVirt table](https://nvidia.github.io/cloud-native-docs/review/pr-44/gpu-operator/latest/platform-support.html#support-for-kubevirt-and-openshift-virtualization).  PLMK if I should update there too.

* Added support to enable NVIDIA GDRCopy v2.4.1.

  When you enable support for GDRCopy, the Operator configures the GPUCopy Driver container image
  as a sidecar container in the GPU driver pod.
  The sidecar container compiles and installs the gdrdrv Linux kernel module.
  This feature is supported on Ubuntu 22.04 and RHCOS operating systems and on X86_64 and ARM64 architectures.

  Refer to :ref:`Chart Customization Options` for more information about the ``driver.gdrcopy`` field.

* Added support for the NVIDIA Data Center GPU Driver version 550.54.15.
  Refer to the :ref:`GPU Operator Component Matrix`
  on the platform support page.

* Added support for the following software component versions:

    - NVIDIA Container Toolkit version v1.15.0

>     - NVIDIA MIG Manager version v0.6.0

Reviewer: https://gitlab.com/nvidia/kubernetes/gpu-operator/-/merge_requests/1071
```suggestion
    - NVIDIA MIG Manager version v0.7.0
```

Reviewer: I still see v0.6.0 listed.

Author: Must be human error, sorry.  I understood your comment and I even know where to look for the single version of the truth.  TY.

    - NVIDIA Driver Manager for K8s v0.6.8
    - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.15.0
    - DCGM 3.3.3-1
    - DCGM Exporter 3.3.5-3.4.0
    - Node Feature Discovery v0.15.4
    - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.15.0

>     - NVIDIA MIG Manager for Kubernetes v0.6.0

Reviewer: This is a duplicate

Reviewer: I still see this duplicate entry.

Author: Hrm.  I'm starting to think I made these changes while sitting at my home computer last week, but didn't push because I expected to make additional changes.  Definitely human error, sorry.

>     - NVIDIA KubeVirt GPU Device Plugin v1.2.6

Reviewer: https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-team/issues/67
```suggestion
    - NVIDIA KubeVirt GPU Device Plugin v1.2.7
```

Reviewer: I still see v1.2.6 listed.

>     - NVIDIA vGPU Device Manager v0.2.5

Reviewer: https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-team/issues/64
```suggestion
    - NVIDIA vGPU Device Manager v0.2.6
```

Reviewer: I still see v0.2.5 listed.

.. _v24.3.0-fixed-issues:

> Fixed Issues

Reviewer: There are quite a few bug fixes / improvements that we will want to add here. I'm happy to help identify all the issues in https://jirasw.nvidia.com/browse/CNT-4606 that are applicable.
